Add new guide: launch a blockchain application - Closes #386 (#494)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/guides/launch.adoc

:url_reference_config: reference/config.adoc
:url_setup_ports: setup.adoc#ports
:url_core_management_forging: {v_core}@lisk-core::management/forging.adoc

== Introduction

This guide describes how to publish a blockchain application.
That enables other users to join the network, which will turn your local 1-node Devnet into an actual blockchain network.

[[nodes]]
=== Node roles
The network will consist of many different nodes that store the blockchain, create new blocks, and update each other about events in the network.

Nodes can have different roles in the network:

Seed nodes::
The seed node is a node that is specified in the config of the node application under `modules.network.seedPeers`.
Beside this, the seed node is a normal node like the others.
+
Newly connected nodes will use the seed peers in their config as a start point to discover the rest of the network.
This is why it must be ensured, that the seed nodes are always reachable and connected to the network.

Forging nodes::
As the name suggests, forging nodes are nodes that have forging enabled for a delegate in the network.
To be actively forging, the delegate needs to be in the top 101.

> Client nodes::

Author: I will ask them :)

> Client nodes::

Author: We agreed now, to change the term to `API node`

Client nodes are nodes that offer API access to specific whitelisted IPs or to the general public.

> They are used by client applications to interact with the blockchain network.

Reviewer: I hope this content is for 2.x.x core version? because some of the information will change for 3.0.0 core

Author: This content is for 3.0.2 Lisk SDK docs. What needs to be updated?

=== Components of a blockchain application

==== Node application

The node application is the application that needs to be installed on a server in order to run a <<nodes, node>> on a particular blockchain network.

==== Client application(s)

> The client application communicates via API requests with one or multiple nodes in the network, in order to provide its services.

Author: Do you say "more multiple?" is this correct?

> The client application communicates via API requests with one or multiple nodes in the network, in order to provide its services.

Reviewer 2: Yes, ''more multiple nodes''  is definitely correct.. :-)

Therefore it is required to generate a **new genesis block** for the blockchain application.
This new genesis block should create new genesis accounts, and the created passphrases need to be kept private, so that the genesis accounts cannot be hijacked.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
The current version of the Lisk SDK does not support to create own genesis blocks, yet.
This feature will be added in future releases.

In case you still want to create a new genesis block with the current release, check out the {url_lisk_community}[community] tools, for example the {url_github_corbifex}[Genesis block generator by Corbifex].
====

[[seed_node]]
== Set up a seed node

When setting up a new node, each new node will firstly connect to the seed nodes when booting for the first time.
Starting from the seed node, a new node will discover the rest of the network by requesting their peer list; followed by the peer lists of the newly discovered peers and so on.

=== Seed node config

It is convenient to have the genesis delegates actively forging on the seed node, in case the network does not yet have enough real delegates who can take the forging spots.

> CAUTION: It's recommended to keep the config of the seed nodes to yourself, especially if it contains the `defaultpassword` to decrypt the passphrases of the genesis delegates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CAUTION: It is recommended to keep the config of the seed nodes to yourself, especially if it contains the `defaultpassword` to decrypt the passphrases of the genesis delegates.
```

Include the data of the new genesis delegates in the config(see xref:{url_guides_forging}[enable forging]), that were created in the <<genesis_block, genesis block>>.

> //TODO: Check out the xref:{}[Best practices: seed nodes] section for further recommendations how to configure a seed node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
//TODO: Please see the xref:{}[Best practices: seed nodes] section for further recommendations how to configure a seed node.
```

== Create a config

Exchange the `configDevnet` object that was passed to the node during the development with the customized version.

[TIP]
====

> It's recommended to create a config object with all the options that are different to the default config options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to create a config object with all the options that differ from the default config options.
```

To check the default config options, go to the xref:{url_reference_config}[configuration page] or check it directly in the code.
Default options for modules: +
`framework/src/modules/MODULE_NAME/defaults/config.js`. +
Default options for components: +
`framework/src/components/COMPONENT_NAME/defaults/config.js`.
====

> Most of the configurations can stay the same to what is defined in the default config options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of the configurations can remain the same as those already defined in the default config options.
```

However, please note that there is one option that should be updated: **The seed node(s)**.

For example to add `1.2.3.4:5000` as a seed node, add an object with the 2 properties `ip` and `wsPort` to the `seedPeers` list as displayed below:

[source,js]
----

> const myConfig = {

Author: how will it change?

                     modules: {
                         network: {
                             seedPeers: [{ ip: '1.2.3.4', wsPort: 5000}]
                         }
                     }
                 };

const app = new Application(genesisBlockDevnet, myConfig);
----

[NOTE]
====
By default, the forging delegates list in the config is empty.
Only the exposed `configDevnet` object includes forging data for all 101 genesis delegates.
The user who will later deploy the node on a server can then add the credentials to the config, to xref:{url_guides_forging}[enable forging] for a particular delegate on this node.
====

== Publish source code

Add the code for the customized `node` application (including the custom transaction types), to a public code repository.
For example, on  {url_github}[Github] or {url_gitlab}[Gitlab].

> This provides everyone the opportunity to download the application and deploy it on a server in order to connect with the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This provides all users with the opportunity to download the application, and deploy it on a server in order to connect with the network.
```

> A node application consists of at least the following files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The minimum amount of files required for a node application can be seen listed below:
```

* {url_github_hello_index}[index.js] :  The code that initializes and starts the node application.
* {url_github_hello_package}[package.json]: A project file that lists all needed dependencies, (this should include `lisk-sdk` as a dependency).
* {url_github_hello_transaction}[transactions]: A folder containing all required custom transaction types.
* `README` : A Readme file which describes the most important steps to setup the node.

> The client application should be distributed in a separate project, and can have any desired structre.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The client application should be distributed in a separate project, and may contain any desired structure as required.
```

== Add an API node

This new node will not have any forging activated.

> The API node is talking via the API with the `client` app, and over the WebSocket connection to the seed node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The API node is communicating via the API with the `client` app, and over the WebSocket connection to the seed node.
```

Therefore, the seed node is the only node at this point that can forge new blocks.
This is due to the fact that all the genesis delegates are actively forging on it.

TIP: How to replace the genesis delegates with real delegates is covered in the next section <<more_nodes, Add more nodes>>.

To set up the node, install the node application on a new server.

> Just follow the instructions of the `README` file, that was created in the step before.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Just follow the instructions of the `README` file, that was created in the previous step.
```

IMPORTANT: Do not forget to open the corresponding xref:{url_setup_ports}[ports] for HTTP and WS communication!

Once a new node is set up, update the API endpoint in the {url_github_hello_client}[client] app, to target the new node:

.Snippet of client/app.js
[source,js]
----
// Constants
const API_BASEURL = 'http://localhost:4000'; <1>
----

<1> Add the correct IP and port here to the newly added node.

> Now, the new API node will receive transactions from the client app and vice versa.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At this point the new API node will now receive transactions from the client app and vice versa.
```

> The received transactions are visible in the logs of the lcient node (if log level is at least `info`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The received transactions will be visible in the logs of the client node, (assuming the log level is at least `info`).
```

> .Logs of newly added API node

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Logs of the newly added API node
```

image:synching_node.png[Synching non forging node]

In the logs shown above it can be seen that the seed node was already 3 blocks ahead when the second node was started.

> It first synchronizes the missing blocks up to the current height and then broadcasts the received transactions from the client app to the seed node, whereby the delegates can then add the transactions to blocks and forge them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It first synchronises the missing blocks up to the current height, and then broadcasts the received transactions from the client app to the seed node, whereby the delegates can then add the transactions to blocks and forge them.
```

These new blocks are broadcasted again to the new node, and the client app can display the data based on the API calls that it sends to the new node.

.Log of the seed node with the forging genesis delegates:
image:forging_node.png[Forging node logs]

[NOTE]

> .Please be aware that broadcast hickups can occur.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Please be aware that broadcast anomalies may occur.
```

Author: Idk here, but "anomalie" sounds like something serious.... But the heading should already tell the user it's no concern if they occur.
```suggestion
.Broadcast "hickups" are no concern
```

Reviewer 2: Well, you could have 'irregularities or even 'inconsistencies' if you don't like anomalies...However hiccups is not really the correct word in these circumstances.  In this case I would then suggest ''irregularities''  :-)

====
Sometimes errors occur when broadcasting transactions between the nodes.

> There is no cause for concern here, as the node will re-start the sync process again; and in the majority of cases it is successful on the next attempt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no cause for concern here as the node will re-start the sync process again; and in the majority of cases it is successful on the next attempt.
```

image:common-sync-issue.png[Common sync issue]
In the above image the block at height 284 is not accepted because of an invalid block timestamp.

> As a result, also the following blocks are also discarded by the node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, the following blocks are also discarded by the node.
```

Anomalies like this can occur within the network.
The node can usually resolve these issues on its own by starting a new sync process, whereby it requests the missing blocks from one of its' peer nodes.
As shown in the logs above, the blocks at height 284, 285 and 286 are displayed as discarded.
At this point the node realizes it is not in sync with the other nodes and starts the sync process.
This can also be seen in the above logs, `Starting sync`.
During the sync process the missing blocks are received from the peers and added to the database of the node.
====

[[more_nodes]]
== Add more nodes

During development of the blockchain application, one node was enabled for forging for all 101 genesis delegates.

After the release of the first version of the blockchain application, it is necessary that real delegates take the forging slots of the genesis delegates.

NOTE: The network will become decentralized for the first time when at least 51 individual delegates are actively forging in the network.

.A forging node joins the network
image:launch-3_nodes.png[3 nodes diagram]

To join the network as a new delegate, follow the steps listed below:

> . Create an own, private account on the network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create an own, private account on the network.
```

.. xref:{url_commander_commands_createaccount}[Generate the account credentials]

> .. Send some funds(at least enough to register as a delegate) to the newly generated address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. Send some funds, (which must be an adequate amount in order to register as a delegate) to the newly generated address.
```

> . Register a delegate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Register a delegate.
```

.. xref:{url_comander_commands_registerdelegate}[Generate the delegate registration object].
.. Broadcast the delegate registration to the network:
+
.Example: Registers a delegate with username "lightcurve"
[source,bash]
----
export SECRET_PASSPHRASE=123456 <1>
lisk transaction:create:delegate lightcurve -p=env:SECRET_PASSPHRASE | tee >(curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d @- 1.2.3.4:4000/api/transactions) <2>
----
<1> Replace `123456` with the secret passphrase.
<2> Replace `1.2.3.4` with the IP of a node with a reachable API.
+
. Set up a node: Follow the steps in the `README` file of the app, (alternatively read the Lisk tutorials, as this process is basically identical).
. xref:{url_guides_forging}[Enable forging for the newly created delegate on the node]
. People become convinced to vote for a delegate in the network, if the delegate has the following attributes:

> ** Is helpful

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Is helpful.
```

> ** Is accountable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Is accountable.
```

> ** Is sharing rewards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Is sharing rewards.
```

> ** Is offering useful services or tools

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
** Is offering useful services or tools.
```

.How to replace a genesis delegate
[NOTE]
====

> If a delegate joins the network on a very early stage, he or she will probably replace one of the genesis delegates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a delegate joins the network at a very early stage, it is likely they will probably replace one of the genesis delegates.
```

The genesis delegates are voted in by the genesis account which holds all the tokens on the initial network start.
The genesis account votes with these tokens for the genesis delegates, in order to stabilize the network during the development.

> Therefore, when replacing a genesis delegate, the new delegate will need to convince the person who controls the genesis account of the network; which will be most likely the app developer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, when replacing a genesis delegate, the new delegate will need to convince the person who controls the genesis account of the network; which will most likely be the app developer.
```

> Later, when the majority of the existing tokens are distributed among the different private accounts, the new delegate needs to gain the trust of the community in order to be voted into a forging position.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Later, when the majority of the existing tokens are distributed amongst the different private accounts, the new delegate needs to gain the trust of the community in order to be voted into a forging position.
```
